Spack Integration Testing (#51013)
spack/spack: var/spack/test_repos/spack_repo/integration_test/README.md

* Guarantees builds without worrying about Gitlab CI's pruning mechanisms (no "nothing to rebuild")
* Directly tests specific Spack behaviors via controlled, deliberatly composed packages and generated source code relying on those behaviors
* Production style useage of Spack allows a deliberate testing environment beyond the limited and contrived nature of unit tests
* In the event of failure revealed by the integration tests, allows for much faster development cycles without needing to wait
hours for Gitlab to complete.
* Reduces AWS costs by catching some failures before kicking off expensive Gitlab CI pipelines

## Currently Tested Behavior

Compiler and Package detection

* Adding a repo beyond builtin and utilizing packages from it

* Fetching a package's source from a local file url

* Successfully staging a packages source

* Executing a build system and driving the build of that system

* Installing the package from the build tree

* Tests ability to run package defined tests
  * Run them to verify a correct installation

Each of these higher level tasks exercises many more atomic sections of Spack that are well covered by our unit tests.

> The purpose served by this test is to validate the integration and compatibility of each of these more atomic components (hence, integration testing :) )

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The purpose served by these tests is to validate the integration and compatibility of each of these more atomic components (hence, integration testing :) ).
```

### Roadmap for future Tests

> Build systems - Expand beyond CMake

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following road map for integration testing outlines several key areas to enhance the testing framework. These include expanding beyond CMake build systems, developing  system configuration specific tests, and more complex repository and package configurations.

The integration testing road map:

1. **Build Systems**
   - Autotools
   - Meson
   - Python
   - Etc.

2. **System specific tests**
   - Platform
   - Architecture
   - Operating System

3. **Configs**
   - Different configuration setups

4. **Repos**
   - Multi-package repository repos
   - Mixed package API versions
   - Etc.

5. **Packages**
   - Different types of source URLs
   - Packages with more complex configuration
   - Packages with dependencies
   - Virtual packages
   - Etc.

6. **Libs and Executables**
   - Test all types

7. **Modules**
   - Test usage of modules
```

Platforms - Platform specific tests

Architectures - Arch specific tests

Urls - different types of URLs to fetch from

Configs - different config setups

Repos - More complex repo setups

Packages - Packages doing more complex things, packages that depend on each other, virtuals, etc

> Libs and executables - test all types

Reviewer: Which types?

> Modules - test usage of modules

Reviewer: What kind of modules? C++ modules, python modules, spack modules...

#### MPI

MPI introduces a lot of Spack logic. With a properly constructed integration test, we can have guarantees

> of basic MPI related behaviors functioning in Spack and behaving as expected without an expensive or potentiall no-op Gitlab CI run.

Reviewer: Keep on same line as above

##### Challenges

None forseen, Spack can install MPI. We may not be able to get a high rank test running, but that's not really the intent of this repo

#### GPU/CUDA/ROCM

Nvidia packages, ROCM, GPU development, and CUDA all introduce further complication into Spack's logic, this allows us to guarantee stability

##### Challenges

> CUDA is available on GHA runners, but GPUs are not universally available and may cost money/have a higher overhead. We may need to self host, reach out to Github about pricing options, or simply be incredbly selective about when this check is run

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is some CUDA availability from GitHub Actions runners; however, GPUs are not universally available. Additional investigation is required to determine if and how integration tests for GPU should be run.
```

# Spack Smoke/Integration Testing

Tests production context runs of Spack

* Isolates behavior from individual package quirks

> * Guaruntees builds without worrying about Gitlab CI's pruning mechanisms (no "nothing to rebuild")

Reviewer 2: (minor) typo -> Guarantees

Author: There's a bunch of these 😬 Thanks

> * Directly tests specific Spack behaviors via controlled, deliberatly composed packages relying on specific behaviors

Reviewer 2: (minor) awkward wording: "specific" twice. I think the key feature is that we generate the source code ourselves, so we can exercise any behavior in Spack that we want (I didn't see any of the points mention source code).

Author: Great suggestion, thanks

* Production style useage of Spack allows a deliberate testing environment beyond the limited and contrived nature of unit tests
* In the event of failure revealed by the integration tests, allows for much faster development cycles without needing to wait
hours for Gitlab to complete.
* Reduces AWS costs by catching some failures before kicking off expensive Gitlab CI pipelines

## Currently Tested Behavior

Compiler and Package detection

Repo - Adding a repo beyond builtin and utilizing packages from it

Fetching - Fetching a package's source from a local file url

Staging - Successfully staging a packages source

Building - Executing a build system and driving the build of that system

Installing - Installing the package from the build tree

> Testing - Validates the software built and installed actually runs

Reviewer 2: (minor) I recommend bulleted list

Also, I think this item "testing" should be more-specifically worded: we are testing the ability to define tests inside of our packages and run them to verify a correct installation.

Overall, I think for all `x - y`, we should drop the `x` or put all `y` into sub-items (for now for example we only exercise one type of fetching, but we could add a git repo and test that too.

Author: Great suggestion, rephrased.

Each of these higher level tasks exercises many more atomic sections of Spack that are well covered by our unit tests.
The purpose served by this test is to validate the integration and compatibility of each of these more atomic components (hence, integration testing :) )

### Roadmap for future Tests

Build systems - Expand beyond CMake

Platforms - Platform specific tests

Architectures - Arch specific tests

Urls - different types of URLs to fetch from

Configs - different config setups

Repos - More complex repo setups

Packages - Packages doing more complex things, packages that depend on each other, virtuals, etc

Libs and executables - test all types

Modules - test usage of modules

#### MPI

> MPI introduces a lot Spack logic. With a properly constructed integration test, we can have guarantees

Reviewer 2: (minor) grammar -> a lot of

Urls - different types of URLs to fetch from

Configs - different config setups

Repos - More complex repo setups

Packages - Packages doing more complex things, packages that depend on each other, virtuals, etc

Libs and executables - test all types

Modules - test usage of modules

#### MPI

MPI introduces a lot of Spack logic. With a properly constructed integration test, we can have guarantees
of basic MPI related behaviors functioning in Spack and behaving as expected without an expensive or potentiall no-op Gitlab CI run.

##### Challenges

None forseen, Spack can install MPI. We may not be able to get a high rank test running, but that's not really the intent of this repo

#### GPU/CUDA/ROCM

Nvidia packages, ROCM, GPU development, and CUDA all introduce further complication into Spack's logic, this allows us to guarantee stability

##### Challenges

CUDA is available on GHA runners, but GPUs are not universally available and may cost money/have a higher overhead. We may need to self host, reach out to Github about pricing options, or simply be incredbly selective about when this check is run

#### HIP

HIP integration testing could be valuable

##### Challenges

> Feasabiliity to be investigated\

Reviewer 2: (minor) typo

## FAQ

> Coming Soon

Reviewer 2: Will this be in before the PR merges? I think the section can disappear entirely if not.
